[meta rev_date="10/28/2010" start_date="10/27/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="$final"]
Final Diagnosis
A.  Ureter, right, margin excision:  Unremarkable ureter; negative for tumor. Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Betty S. Garcia, M.D.

B.  Vessel, right internal iliac artery, excision:  Vessel wall adventitia involved by grade 3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma consistent with colorectal primary.

C.  Ureter, distal right margin, excision:  Unremarkable ureter; negative for tumor.

D.  Peritoneum, right lateral side wall (psoas), excision:  Involved by grade 3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma consistent with colorectal primary.

E.  Soft tissue, right internal iliac posterior division, No. 1, margin excision:  Vessel wall adventitia involved by grade 3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma consistent with colorectal primary.

F.  Soft tissue, right presacral mass including portion of right ureter/right colon, en-bloc, resection:  Grade 3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma consistent with colorectal primary forming a 2.4 x 2.2 x 1.7 cm soft tissue mass with extension to involve the wall of the ureter.  Portion of right colon is uninvolved.  The deep margin is positive for tumor.  All remaining margins are negative.  A single lymph node is negative for tumor.

G.  Small bowel, excision:  Small bowel mucosa without diagnostic abnormality.  

H.  Soft tissue, right internal iliac posterior division, No. 2, margin excision: Negative for tumor.

I.  Soft tissue, right internal iliac anterior division, margin excision:  Negative for tumor.

J.  Soft tissue margin, medial psoas muscle, margin excision:  Negative for tumor.

K.  Soft tissue, L5 nerve root, excision:  Nerve and ganglion and a single focus of grade 3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma consistent with colorectal primary.

L.  Nerve, right obturator, excision:  Negative for tumor.

M.  Soft tissue, L5 nerve root, re-excision:  Negative for tumor.

This final pathology report is based on the gross/macroscopic examination and the frozen section histologic evaluation of the specimen(s). Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) permanent sections are reviewed to confirm these findings. Any substantive changes identified on permanent section review will be reflected in a revised report.



[end section id="$final"]
[start section id="$gross"]

Gross Description
A.  Received fresh labeled right ureter margin is a 0.4 x 0.3 x 0.2 cm portion of pink-tan tubular soft tissue without orientation.  Margin submitted.  Grossed by COLLINS.

B.  Received fresh labeled right internal iliac artery is a 0.9 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm portion of vessel.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by COLLINS.

C.  Received fresh labeled distal right ureter margin is a 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm portion of ureter without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by LARSON.

D.  Received fresh labeled right lateral side wall psoas is a 2.6 x 1.1 x 1.0 cm pink-tan tissue.  Cut surface shows a 0.9 x 0.6 x 0.8 cm well-circumscribed area with friable material.  All submitted.  Grossed by GONZALES.

E.  Received fresh labeled right internal iliac- posterior division is a 1.6 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm fragment of vessel.  All submitted.  Grossed by GONZALES.

F.  Received fresh labeled en bloc (right presacral mass including portion of right ureter/right colon)"" is a 7.6 x 5.5 x 4.0 cm portion of nerve, vessels, soft tissue and portion of colon measuring 1.7 cm in length with a diameter of 2.5 cm.  A 4.1 cm long segment of ureter is present.  Sectioning reveals a firm white-tan mass measuring 2.4 x 2.2 x 1.7 cm, abutting the ureter and 1.2 cm from the colon.  The colonicmucosa is unremarkable.  The margins are shaved.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by ROMERO.

G.  Received fresh labeled portion of small bowel is 3.5 cm segment of small bowel.  The serosa is focally hemorrhagic.  The mucosa is grossly unremarkable.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by GONZALES.

H.  Received fresh labeled right internal iliac - posterior division No. 2 is a 0.9 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm portion of fibroadipose tissue with orientation.  Margin submitted.  Grossed by MONTGOMERY.

I.  Received fresh labeled right internal iliac - anterior division margin is a 2.7 cm long segment of vessel with orientation.  Margin submitted.  Grossed by ROMERO.

J.  Received fresh labeled medial psoas muscle margin is a 4.6 x 2.1 x 0.7 cm portion of pink-tan tissue without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by ROMERO.

K.  Received fresh labeled L5 nerve root is a 2.1 x 1.2 x 0.8 cm aggregate of pink-yellow soft tissue.  All submitted. Grossed by ROMERO.

L.  Received fresh labeled right obturator nerve is a 2.2 x 0.7  x 0.4 cm  portion of nerve and soft tissue.  All submitted.  Grossed by ROMERO.

M.  Received fresh labeled re-excision L5 nerve root is a 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.7 cm aggregate of red-pink tissue.  All submitted.  Grossed by LONON








[end section id="$gross"]