[meta rev_date="10/14/2010" start_date="10/14/2010" rev="0006"]

[start section id="20100"]

Oct-14-2010 16:21:03 - Modification to SOCIAL HISTORY, FAMILY HISTORY by Tracy S. Monroe
Oct-14-2010 17:15:21 - Modification to IMPRESSION / REPORT / PLAN by Tracy S. Monroe
Oct-22-2010 14:43:22 - Modification to HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS, FAMILY HISTORY, IMPRESSION / REPORT / PLAN by Tracy S. Monroe

[end section id="20100"]

[start section id="20112"]

#1 Hodgkin's lymphoma, age 20
#2 Infiltrating ductal breast cancer, age 44
#3 Adenocarcinoma of the colon, age 44
#4 Squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue, age 46
I had a long discussion with Mrs. Cason and her husband about the possibility of a genetic diagnosis. It is important that we confirm she was tested negative for BRCA1 and BRCA2 and that she had the BART testing. This would certainly address her breast cancer at an early age but would not itself link this to the other tumors she has had. I do wonder whether the squamous cell of the tongue is secondary to a history of radiation therapy, both for Hodgkin's as well as breast cancer. Similarly, the breast cancer could potentially be resultant from radiation exposure, but that still leaves the colon cancer.
Early-onset colon cancer can be due to multiple different genetic conditions.  Most common is Lynch (also known as hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer, HNPCC) syndrome which is a disorder of DNA mismatch repair (MMR) genes that leads to microsatellite instability (MSI) and can be tested for by looking at microsatellite markers as well as the expression of mismatch repair proteins.  These tests are performed on affected tumor tissue. I have requested, with Mrs. Cason permission, that immunohistochemistry (IHC) testing be added to the MSI testing that was already ordered by the pathologists.  The two of these tests together have a very good pickup rate for Lynch syndrome and we can perform confirmatory DNA testing directed by the IHC results.
Mrs. Cason does not have any clinical features of so-called homozygous Lynch syndrome which is a cause of very early colon cancer as well as other tumors including hematologic malignancies due to biallelic mutations of the usual Lynch syndrome genes. These patients are described as having a neurofibromatosis-type picture with cafe-au-lait macules, axillary freckling, subtle increase in skin pigmentation, neuraxonal tumors, and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.  In any case, such a recessive defect of mismatch repair genes would also be expressed in MSI and IHC results.
Almost all cases of BRCA-related breast and ovarian cancer and Lynch syndrome are due to inherited mutations, therefore we expect to see other people in the family affected. It is possible to have reduced penetrance and some variable expression, but Mrs. Cason' family history would not fit well unless we are missing information.  Her closest relative with breast cancer is her grandmother who only developed it in her 70s.  The brain cancer may relate to Turcot syndrome which is a form of Lynch syndrome, but that is in a cousin and there are no known intermediate affected family members.
Additional diagnoses to consider would be Li-Fraumeni syndrome which is strongly associated with breast cancer, soft-tissue sarcomas, osteosarcoma, brain tumors, adrenal cortical cancer, Wilms tumor, and Phyllodes tumor.  Pancreatic cancer, gastric cancer, leukemias, and neuroblastomas are also seen.  This is another dominant condition which affects mostly children and young adults. Often multiple primary tumors are seen. It is caused by mutations in TP53 which is a tumor suppressor gene encoding a transcription factor with a crucial role in the regulation of the cell cycle and cell death, in response to DNA damage.
There is a correlation seen between age and incidence of cancer where cancers are, in general, due to multiple accumulated genetic anomalies in our cells. Over the course of a lifetime, random genetic mistakes occur and are usually repaired but a fraction may survive and the build-up of such mistakes may eventually lead to cancer. Moreover, if there are mistakes with the very mechanisms the body uses to repair its genes (so-called 'tumor suppressor genes'), then we can imagine the overall rate of genetic anomaly build-up would be even faster and cancer would arise earlier than expected.
I explained how we each carry two copies of our genes, one set from each parent. We think of each of these gene repair conditions (as in BR CA, Lynch and Li-Fraumeni) as being caused by a two-hit process where, in a cancer, both versions of the gene need to be abnormal.  If we are born with one abnormal version then it is more likely to have the second one go abnormal, by chance, in any cell and for cancer to result. The common type, so-called sporadic cancers (without strong family history) are still due to two hits on a gene, but in the case of non-inherited cancer both hits must take place in the one cell that was not originally carrying an abnormal version. This accounts for how inherited cancers tend to occur sooner and sometimes in more than 1 place in the body, rather than in only one organ later in life.
We have ordered cryopreserved DNA to be stored in case we need to perform further genetic testing.  Mrs. Cason and her husband are motivated to perform genetic testing to understand the diagnosis and to preempt future complications.   In addition, she feels it might be helpful for her siblings should she be diagnosed with an underlying cause.  I will be in touch with the results via phone number 505-211-0240.  I will also discuss her case with Dr. Martin, one of my Genetics colleagues, and we will continue to follow-up.
ADDENDUM (10/14/10):
IHC tumor - normal. Pt was informed. We await MSI.
BRCA1/2 and BART rearrangement tests, all NORMAL.
Dr Martin agreed the likelihood of Lynch was low. With the lack of family history and no other characteristic findings of Li-Fraumeni (incl. CHEK2 subtype), she agreed completing MSI and confirming BRCA results were the priority. We can re-evaluate once results are in.
We do feel early-onset breast cancer and history of multiple radiation courses warrant breast MRI for screening. This can be done in addition to mammogram. We recommend she be seen in our breast clinic to determine frequency and preferred modality(-ies) of screening.
ADDENDUM (10/22/10):-
MSI testing normal.
Pt informed. This makes Lynch Syndrome very unlikely. She understood no further screening would then be recommended in light of her early colon cancer.
However, I emphasized we should add breast MRI to screen for her post-XRT risk of further breast primary and I am willing to aid her if she has difficulty obtaining insurance coverage for this.

[end section id="20112"]

[start section id="20113"]

#1 Hodgkin's lymphoma, age 20
#2 Infiltrating ductal breast cancer, age 44
#3 Adenocarcinoma of the colon, age 44
#4 Squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue, age 46

[end section id="20113"]

[start section id="20101"]

Missy Gaston, M.D. (257-6496; Colon and Rectal Surgery)

[end section id="20101"]

[start section id="20102"]

Supervised by: Taylor Lee M.B.B.S. (650-2907; Medical Genetics).
Multiple primary cancers; query cause.

[end section id="20102"]

[start section id="20103"]

I met Mrs. Cason with her husband today.  She is a 47-year-old lady from Colorado who is at Mullen Dental Hospital for surgery on her most recent colorectal cancer recurrence.  Her history is extensive but well-outlined in the Oncology consult from September 8, 2010. In short, she is an unfortunate lady, having had Hodgkin's lymphoma in 1983 at age 20 that was treated with MOPP and ABVD chemotherapy. She also had radiation to the left neck and mediastinum. The lymphoma recurred in 1987 and she had more MOPP and mantle radiation to the left supraclavicular fossa and chest.
She was subsequently in her usual state of health until she went for routine breast screening in 2007. Mammogram showed a lesion that later proved to be infiltrating ductal carcinoma in the left breast (ipsilateral to majority of Hodgkin's radiotherapy) which was 1.6-cm in size.  This was removed by lumpectomy with negative margins.  It was estrogen, progesterone, and HER2-receptor-negative. Sentinel node biopsies were negative.  I note that p53 was expressed (see pathology report from September 7 by Dr. Murray).  She had BRCA testing performed via genetic counselors at the Southwest Regional Medical Clinic in 2007 which was apparently negative for BRCA1 and BRCA2.  She describes having a third test which may have been the BART rearrangement testing.  In any case, they were all normal, but we do not have reports.
The breast cancer was subsequently treated by chemotherapy and radiation until she developed bright-red blood per rectum with left pelvic pain later the same year. This proved to be due to an 1.1cm adenocarcinoma of the rectosigmoid colon that was resected in February 2008 at the Southwest Regional Medical Clinic. They also resected two liver metastases and there were two lymph node metastases. Staging was T3,N1,M1. Prior to surgery she had completed neoadjuvant chemotherapy with FOLFOX and Vectibix.  After surgery with lymph node recurrence seen on imaging she resumed FOLFIRI. I see that later that year, October 2008, she had a colonoscopy showing one tubular adenomatous polyp.
In November 2009, in response to a rising CEA (which I believe got up to 13), she had a PET scan which showed activity in the base of the tongue. This later proved to be squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue, stage T2,N1. This has been treated with cisplatin and Taxotere. She also had radiation and brachytherapy for the tongue.
Since the discovery of the above cancers, she has continued to have frequent imaging.  CT of the abdomen and pelvis this year showed progressive increase in size of lesions in the liver, now 1.8-cm and 6-mm. In addition, the presacral lymph nodes in the pelvis had increased in size. She had radiation to the pelvis and 5-FU from May 2010 for the recurrence and PET scan in August 2010 showed decrease in the size of the lymph nodes in the pelvis and a complete response in the tongue. She came to Mullen Dental Hospital to consider resection of the lymph nodes or more wide-reaching abdominal surgery.
On Friday, her appendix was resected, multiple retroperitoneal lymph nodes, and a 3-cm x 1.8-cm x 1.9-cm mass in the mesentery (adjacent to the sigmoid colon) which showed grade III adenocarcinoma with vascular invasion but negative margins. This tissue has been sent for molecular microsatellite instability testing (MSI) in our Molecular Genetics lab. Postoperatively, she had some prerenal acute renal failure which has resolved.  She is soon to resume her diet and is feeling quite good considering all she has been through.
There was 1 benign colon polyp resected at surveillance colonoscopy in 2008.

[end section id="20103"]

[start section id="20107"]

She has a history of peripheral neuropathy in the hands and feet after oxaliplatin. She also has decreased taste after the radiation therapy to the head and neck.
She had a tonsillectomy as a child, endometrial ablation a few years ago, and a traumatic fracture of the right ankle which was repaired.

[end section id="20107"]

[start section id="20105"]

Medication :
CODEINE - Nausea
Non-Medication / Food :
CAT HAIR - Pruritus
ADHESIVE TAPE - Rash
POLLEN - sneezing, watery eyes
Radiology :
**NO KNOWN CONTRAST MEDIA**
Allergies above current as of Thursday, October 14, 2010  at  02:07 PM

[end section id="20105"]

[start section id="20108"]

She has been a lifetime nonsmoker.  She only has occasional alcohol. She describes living in a new housing development as a child about 20 miles due south of UT (76245, Plato). This was built on farmland but apparently several members of the community went on to develop cancers of various types. We are not exactly sure of the subtypes, but in a relatively small number of houses it is remarkable how most households had one or two people affected with cancer at varying ages. She is not aware of any CDC or Public Health Dept. action in the area and people continue to live there. It has not been declared "off-limits."

[end section id="20108"]

[start section id="20109"]

Patient was referred to a genetic counselor to obtain a detailed family history and for construction of a pedigree, which is scanned and available for viewing in the medical record.  Following are the pertinent findings.
Mrs. Cason never had children. She was warned that there may be a risk to her fertility when she had chemotherapy for the Hodgkin's in the 80s.  It was not the practice at the time to freeze eggs.
She has one brother and one sister.  The brother has a son with ADHD.  The sister has one daughter with obsessive behavior (unknown diagnosis) and a 6-year-old son who has had to wear a helmet for unusual skull shape and macrocephaly. She does not know if there is a known syndromic cause of this.  His development is apparently normal.
Mrs. Cason' father-died at 70 of a myocardial infarction.  He also had gout. Her mother is alive at 73 with type-2 diabetes.  There is an extensive cardiac history on both sides of the family, but one maternal cousin has a brain cancer. She is alive at 46.  We are not sure of the details. The maternal grandmother had two breast cancers diagnosed in her 70s initially. One of these eventually metastasized and she died at 82 of breast cancer. There may have been breast and colon cancers in up to four additional great-aunts and uncles.  Nothing earlier than their 60s and we are not aware of anyone having metachronous or synchronous primaries.
Non-consanguineous parents.

[end section id="20109"]

[start section id="20104"]

Cholecalciferol (Vitamin D3) 1,000 unit capsule 1 capsule by mouth one-time daily.
Nystatin [NYAMYC] 100,000 unit/g Powder 1 apply topically as directed by prescriber.
Site: Instructed area.
Instructions: use as directed under appliance.
Prilosec OTC 20-mg tablet enteric-coated 1 TABLET by mouth one-time daily.
These are the patient's medications as of Thursday, October 14, 2010 at 2:07 PM.

[end section id="20104"]

[start section id="20111"]

Head: External eye examination was normal, EOMI and PERLA. She does not appear dysmorphic.
Skin: I performed a detailed examination of the skin. She has multiple freckles, too many to count. None of them look premalignant in any way. She has some raised pigmented lesions consistent with early seborrheic keratoses, again distributed all over her body, including non sun-exposed areas on the back. None of these are causing any discomfort. I did not examine the abdomen in detail but the skin of the chest is also normal. No axillary or inguinal freckling.
Significant symmetric upper extremity pitting edema.
Neuro: Intact speech, memory, and limb strength and gross sensation, but I did not have her get out of bed or assess reflexes or co-ordination.

[end section id="20111"]


