[meta rev_date="10/14/2010" start_date="10/8/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="$final"]
Final Diagnosis
A.  Appendix, appendectomy:  Appendix is without diagnostic abnormality. Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Blake Guy, M.D.

B.  Lymph nodes, right external iliac, biopsy:  Multiple (2) right external iliac lymph nodes are negative for tumor.  Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Blake Guy, M.D.

C.  Lymph nodes, right internal iliac, biopsy:  A single right internal iliac lymph node is negative for tumor.  Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Blake Guy, M.D.

D.  Lymph node, apical superior hemorrhoidal, biopsy:  Multiple (3) lymph nodes are negative for tumor.  Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Blake Guy, M.D.

E.  Lymph node, right bifurcation, biopsy:  One lymph node is negative for tumor.  Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Blake Guy, M.D.

F.  Lymph node, right common iliac, biopsy:  Multiple (4) pelvic common iliac lymph nodes are negative for tumor.  Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Blake Guy, M.D.

G.  Lymph node, left external iliac, biopsy:  One pelvic external iliac lymph node is negative for tumor.

H.  Lymph node, left common iliac, biopsy:  One pelvic common iliac lymph node is negative for tumor.

I.  Colon, sigmoid and colorectal anastomosis, resection:  Grade 3 (of 4) colonic adenocarcinoma forming a 3.0 x 1.8 x 1.9 cm mass in the mesenteric fat adherent to the sigmoid colon.  Vascular invasion is present.  The margins are negative for tumor.  There is also an area of dense fibrosis in the mesentery associated with the anastomotic site. The colon shows focal ulceration near the anastomic site, and is otherwise unremarkable.

This final pathology report is based on the gross/macroscopic examination and the frozen section histologic evaluation of the specimen(s). Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) permanent sections are reviewed to confirm these findings. Any substantive changes identified on permanent section review will be reflected in a revised report.



[end section id="$final"]
[start section id="$gross"]

Gross Description
A.  Received fresh labeled appendixis a 5.6 x 0.6 cm appendix with smooth serosa.  There is no gross perforation.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by MEADE.

B.  Received fresh labeled right external iliac nodes is a 5.1 x 0.9 x 0.5 cm aggregate of adipose and lymphatic tissue.  All submitted.  Grossed by DOMINGUEZ.

C.  Received fresh labeled right internal iliac nodes is a 2.2 x 1.5 x 0.4 cm aggregate of adipose and lymphatic tissue.  All submitted.  Grossed by JULIAN.

D.  Received fresh labeled apical superior hemorrhoidal lymph node is a 1.9 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm aggregate of adipose and lymphatic tissue.  All submitted.  Grossed by DOMINGUEZ.

E.  Received fresh labeled right bifurcation lymph node is a 1.4 x 0.8 x 0.7 cm aggregate of adipose and lymphatic tissue.  Lymph node all submitted.  Grossed by BEATTY

F.  Received fresh labeled right common iliac lymph node is a 3.2 x 2.1 x 0.6 cm aggregate of adipose and lymphatic tissue.  Lymph nodes all submitted.  Grossed by DOMINGUEZ.

G.  Received fresh labeled left external iliac lymph node is a 3.3 x 0.9 x 0.5 cm aggregate of adipose and lymphatic tissue.  Lymph node all submitted.  Grossed by BEATTY

H.  Received fresh labeled left common iliac lymph node is a 1.5 x 0.6 x 0.4 cm aggregate of adipose and lymphatic tissue.  Lymph node all submitted.  Grossed by BEATTY

I.  Received fresh labeled sigmoid and colorectal anastomosis is a 16.0 x 7.0 x 2.0 cm portion of sigmoid with attached mesentery. Within the mesentery are 2 tan-white nodules (3.0 x 1.9 x 1.9 cm, and 2.2 x 1.6 x 1.5 cm).  The mucosa is unremarkable and an anastomosis site is present.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by JULIAN.



Addendum Diagnosis
At the request of Ms. Bobby Hilson, CNP, k-ras and BRAF mutation analysis will be performed on paraffin-embedded metastatic tumor in mesenteric nodule (I3).  In addition, because of the patient's young age, reflexive molecular genetic testing for HNPCC will be performed.  When completed, all results will be available in NWVG VwrxOfvk.



Addendum Diagnosis
At the request of Dr. Tracy Monroe, immunohistochemical staining for DNA mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, MSH2, MSH6 and PMS2 was performed on paraffin-embedded metastatic tumor in mesenteric nodule tissue sections (block I3).  The staining showed intact expression of all four enzymes.  These findings fail to provide evidence of hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer syndrome (HNPCC) due to defective DNA mismatch repair.  PCR analysis is in progress and will be available in NWVG VwrxOfvk when completed.


Internal Comments
10/13/10--12 molgen recuts to MG for k-ras/BRAF mutation (Bobby Hilson, CNP) and for ""reflexive"" GORDON/borgen




[end section id="$gross"]