[meta rev_date="8/9/2010" start_date="8/11/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="$final"]
Final Diagnosis
A.  Soft tissue, pericholecystic nodule, biopsy:  Fat necrosis.

B.  Liver, portions segments III and IV, wedge resection:  Metastatic low grade neuroendocrine carcinoma forming a 1.3 x 1.2 x 1.2 cm mass. The surgical resection margins are negative for tumor (minimum tumor free margin, 0.6 cm). Immunohistochemical stains (chromogranin, synaptophysin, TTF-1, CDX2) were performed on the paraffin embedded liver tissue (block B1).  The tumor cells are strongly positive for chromogranin and synaptophysin and lack staining for TTF-1 and CDX2. Possible primaries include upper gastrointestinal (stomach, duodenum), pancreas, lung and less likely rectal.  

C.  Liver, portion of segment VI, wedge resection:  Metastatic low grade neuroendocrine carcinoma forming a 0.9 x 0.7 x 0.7 cm mass. The surgical resection margins are negative for tumor (minimum tumor free margin, 1.1 cm). 

D.  Liver, portion segment VII, wedge resection:  Metastatic low grade neuroendocrine carcinoma forming a 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.7 cm mass.  The surgical resection margins are negative for tumor (minimum tumor free margin, 0.8 cm).

E.  Gallbladder, cholecystectomy:  Chronic cholecystitis with a 0.9 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm adenomyoma.  The cystic duct lymph node is negative for tumor.

F.  Colon, resection:  Invasive grade 4 (of 4) adenocarcinoma with signet ring cell and mucinous features arising in association with tubulovillous adenoma with high grade dysplasia forming a polypoid mass (4.2 x 2.4 x 0.7 cm) located in the transverse colon. The tumor invades into but not through the muscularis propria. The ileo-colonic anastomotic site is intact.  The proximal and distal surgical resection margins are negative for tumor.  Multiple (24) regional lymph nodes are negative for tumor. Immunohistochemical stains (chromogranin, synaptophysin, TTF-1, CDX2) were performed on the paraffin embedded colon tissue (block F2).  The neoplastic cells are positive for CDX2 and lack staining for chromogranin, synaptophysin and TTF-1. Immunohistochemical stain (keratin) was performed on the paraffin embedded colon (block F6) and lymph node (block F11) tissues and support the above diagnosis. Immunohistochemical stains for MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, and PMS2 reveal intact nuclear staining in tumor cells.  In a very small percentage of tumors, there is an underlying hereditary genetic defect despite intact nuclear expression in tumor cells.  Clinical correlation is required.  

With available surgical materials, [AJCC pT2N0](7th edition, 2010).

Seen with Dr. Jean S. Trawick.



[end section id="$final"]
[start section id="$gross"]

Gross Description
A.  Received fresh labeled ""peri cholecystic nodule"" is a 2.2 x 1.9 x 1.2 cm fragment of red-tan tissue containing a 0.4 x 0.4 x 0.3 cm white-yellow calcified nodule.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by OTTO.

B.  Received fresh labeled ""portion segments III and IV of liver"" is a 18.7 gram, 5.6 x 2.9 x 2.6 cm liver wedge specimen.  A single 1.3 x 1.2 x 1.2 cm red white mass with central necrosis is present 0.6 cm from the surgical margin.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by OTTO.

C.  Received fresh labeled ""portion segment VI of liver"" is an 11.2 gram, 3.8 x 2.8 x 2.2 cm liver wedge specimen.  A single 0.9 x 0.7 x 0.7 cm yellow mass is present 1.1 cm from the surgical margin.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by OTTO.

D.  Received fresh labeled ""portion segment VII of liver"" is a 7.4 gram, 3.6 x 2.8 x 1.7 cm partial hepatectomy specimen.  A single 1.2 x 0.9 x 0.7 cm yellow white mass is present 0.8 cm from the inked surgical margin.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by THOMPSON.

E.  Received fresh labeled ""gallbladder"" is a 10.4 x 3.5 x 2.0 cm gallbladder with a 0.4 cm maximum wall thickness and patent cystic duct.  A cystic duct lymph node is identified.  No stones are present within the lumen.  There is a 0.9 x 0.8 x 0.6 cm submucosal nodule in the fundus. Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by THOMPSON.

F.  Received fresh labeled ""colon"" is a partial colectomy specimen consisting of 68.0 cm in length portion of colon and a 4.2 cm portion of ileum with an ileocolonic anastomosis site.  There is a 4.2 x 2.4 x 0.7 cm polypoid mass within the transverse colon, 17.5 cm from the ileal mucosal margin.  Grossly, the mass is confined to the mucosa.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified within the mesenteric fat.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by OTTO.


Frozen Sect-Intraop
A.  Soft tissue, pericholecystic nodule, biopsy:  Fat necrosis.  

B.  Liver, portions segments III and IV, resection:  Metastatic carcinoma with neuroendocrine features.  Margins negative. HOLD to perform stains to further classify.  Seen in consultation with Dana A. Williams, M.D.

C.  Liver, portion of segment VI, wedge resection:  Metastatic carcinoma with neuroendocrine features. Margins negative.

D.  Liver, portion segment VII, wedge resection:  Metastatic carcinoma with neuroendocrine features.  Margins negative. 

E.  Gallbladder, cholecystectomy:  Chronic cholecystitis and adenomyoma.  One lymph node is negative.

F.  Colon, resection:  At least intramucosal adenocarcinoma on one representative section.  Anastomotic site intact.  Margins negative. HOLD to assess depth of invasion and lymph nodes.

Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Terry J. Escalante, M.D.





[end section id="$gross"]