[meta rev_date="09/20/2010" start_date="09/20/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="20112"]

This is my third visit with the patient whom I am seeing off-the-floor with Dr. Cory Tse.  The patient and I first met January 19, 2010, at which point she had a fair amount of metastatic disease to her lungs, and she also was known to have an anastomotic recurrence at that time.  Her biopsy showing anastomotic recurrence was from December 14, 2009, from home.  We reviewed the pathology here at Boulder Clinic and confirmed that it was cancer consistent with rectal primary, but we never had any records showing the exact source of that biopsy.  The patient can site where it came from, but I would like to see the record itself.  She went on to get chemotherapy and had essentially resolution of her pulmonary nodules.  Dr. Solum had seen her back in January and again saw her just in August.  He agreed that her disease looks to be under control in the lungs.  From the August 4, 2010, note of Dr. Solum, he said it was notable for surgery of the lungs at this time but to proceed with treatment of the primary site.  He also has explained to her that in the future she is likely to have pulmonary metastases again.  We have been very frank with her about this.  We have not said anything other than fact that it is likely she is going to have reemergence of pulmonary metastases down the road.  With that being said, we cannot say what will be the necessary treatment at that time.  She might end up being best treated with surgery for isolated lesions.  In the meantime, we have a known recurrence in the pelvis that is anastomotic as best we can tell.  We do not know if there is extrarectal disease.  According to my review of the images including from September 14, 2010, at RHSB, it looks like there probably is extrarectal disease.  We cannot know that with certainty until we get in there.  For right now, we are treating her as if she has both anastomotic disease and extrarectal disease.  We will get the report from home to clarify that.
Of note, there was an attempt to do colonoscopy in the past, but she was so obstructed it was not feasible.  She went to surgery at-home in February 2010, and we have those reports that show that they did a diverting loop colostomy in the right upper quadrant.  She is quite happy with the site.  It does prolapse and get quite bulky but that is very typical for loop transverse colostomies.  Whether we revise that or not at surgery will depend on the anatomy that is present at the time of surgery.  If she has a lot of proximal right colon, we might just resect the distal portion of the bowel with the resection of the left colon.  If she only has a small amount of proximal bowel and a lot of left colon and transverse, we may create an end colostomy instead to give her better function.  We will certainly want to scope her proximal and distal limbs of the colon prior to proceeding with surgery.  We then talked about having her see a stomal nurse.  She has a lot of allergies to materials.
I have given her a general idea of what we are planning to do and how it will affect her future.  I told her that the ureters and the bladder and even the vagina look to be out of harm's way of this lesion.  The posterior wall of the vagina could be too close and have to be removed in part with the tumor in the old anastomosis.  Certainly, this would be an APR.  She has a very narrow pelvis where the bowel is.  I do not think her obstruction is necessarily all from cancer.  I think it actually is all fibrosis perhaps from the radiation she has had in the past or some ischemia of the colon, any number of things.  I have explained everything to her satisfaction at this point.  Certainly we will go through things again when we meet again next week.
TO-DO LIST
1. I need the endoscopy report from home from December 14, 2009, which represents the source of the biopsy.
2. We will need to schedule her for a colonoscopy for the day before surgery to go to the proximal limb and distal limb.
3. We need to have her see a stoma nurse.
4. I will see her again to go through things and make sure she is ready for surgery on October 6.  Questions addressed to her satisfaction.  No need to repeat her images unless there is a change in her health status between now and her surgery.

[end section id="20112"]

[start section id="20113"]

#1 Recurrent rectal cancer

[end section id="20113"]

[start section id="20102"]

Evaluation and management.

[end section id="20102"]

[start section id="20114"]

30

[end section id="20114"]


