[meta rev_date="2/4/2010" start_date="2/4/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="$final"]
Final Diagnosis
A.  Soft tissue, epiploic fat, excision:  Fat necrosis.

B.  Colon, left hemicolectomy:  Segment of colon which contains extensive associated fat necrosis that is negative for primary tumor.  However, one (of 11) regional lymph nodes is positive for metastatic carcinoma.

C.  Rectum, segmental resection:  Adenocarcinoma, moderately (grade 3 of 4) differentiated, forming a 3.3 x 3.3 x 0.9 cm ulcerative mass in the rectum.  Tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the pericolic fat.  Lymphatic/vascular invasion is absent.  The tumor extends to within 11.5 cm of the radial resection margin [AJCC pT3 N1 M1].  One (of 15) regional lymph nodes is positive for metastatic carcinoma.

D.  Colon, right hemicolectomy:  Segment of colon and terminal ileum and appendix with no tumor identified.  Multiple (13) regional lymph nodes are negative for tumor.

E.  Liver, portion of segment VI, wedge resection:  Metastatic grade 3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma, consistent with colorectal primary, forming a 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm nodule, 1.4 cm from the surgical resection margin.

This final pathology report is based on the gross/macroscopic examination and the frozen section histologic evaluation of the specimen(s). Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) permanent sections are reviewed to confirm these findings. Any substantive changes identified on permanent section review will be reflected in a revised report.




[end section id="$final"]
[start section id="$gross"]

Gross Description
A.  Received fresh labeled epiploic fat is a 2.8 x 1.5 x 1.1 cm fragment of yellow-pink fibroadipose tissue.  Representative sections are submitted. Grossed by CHAVEZ.

B.  Received fresh labeled left colon is a left hemicolectomy specimen consisting of 
27.5 cm in length portion of colon with a 22.0 x 7.0 x 6.2 cm annular mass within the fat, 3.0 cm from the closest mucosal margin, and 0.8 cm from the radial margin. Multiple lymph nodes are identified within the mesenteric fat. Representative sections are submitted. Grossed by CHAVEZ.

C.  Received fresh labeled rectum is a low anterior resection specimen consisting of 29.0 cm in length portion of rectosigmoid colon.  A 3.3 x 3.3 x 0.9 cm ulcerative mass is present within the rectum, 12.0 cm from the proximal mucosal margin, and 11.5 cm from the radial margin. Multiple lymph nodes are identified within the perirectal fat.  The fat is diffusely firm and fibrotic.  Representative sections are submitted. Grossed by CHAVEZ.

D.  Received fresh labeled right colon is a right hemicolectomy specimen consisting of 3.9 cm of terminal ileum, 4.3 cm of colon, and a 16.0 x 0.8 cm appendix. No tumor grossly identified. Multiple lymph nodes are identified within the mesenteric fat. Representative sections are submitted. Grossed by BAX.

E.  Received fresh labeled liver portion of segment VI is a 5.0 x 5.0 x 3.5 cm fragment of liver.  There is a 1.5 x 1.5 x 1.5 cm solid white central mass, 1.4 cm to the nearest surgical resection margins.  Grossed by BAX.



Addendum Diagnosis
Evaluation of the non-neoplastic liver demonstrates non-specific portal inflammation and mild macrovesicular steatosis.  Trichrome stain demonstrates no fibrosis.  Iron stain shows trace, predominantly Kupffer cell, hemosiderosis.  PAS-D shows no cytoplasmic globular inclusions.


Addendum Diagnosis
Due to the patient's young age, reflexive molecular genetic testing for HNPCC will be performed; when completed, results will be available in CTXW WwgwGdii.


Addendum Diagnosis
At the request of Dr. Chris Gonzalez, k-ras mutation analysis will be performed on paraffin-embedded rectal adenocarcinoma tissue (block C2).  Upon completion, results will be available in CTXW WwgwGdii.


Internal Comments
2/16/10--6 molgen cuts to MG for reflexive BOWEN/huntley
6/11/10--6 molgen cuts to MG for k-ras mutation analysis at request of Dr. Chris Gonzalezjames


[end section id="$gross"]
