[meta rev_date="3/12/2010" start_date="3/16/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="$final"]
Final Diagnosis
A.  Omentum, omentectomy:  Negative for tumor.

B.  Colon, abdominal colectomy:  Multiple inflammatory pseudopolyps involving the large bowel.  No dysplasia or carcinoma are identified.  The small bowel and appendix are without diagnostic abnormality.  

C.  Colon, low anterior resection:  Well differentiated invasive grade 3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma is identified forming an annular mass (4.0 x 3.2 x 1.5 cm) located 3.0 cm from the dentate line and 4.0 cm from the distal anal resection margin.  The tumor invades through the muscularis propria and into the pericolic fat.  Lymphatic/vascular invasion is absent.  A tubular adenoma, low grade dysplasia (0.5 cm in greatest dimension) is identified in the sigmoid.  All surgical resection margins are negative for dysplasia and tumor.  Multiple (24) regional lymph nodes are negative for tumor. [AJCC ypT3N0]

D.  Omentum, additional, omentectomy:  Negative for tumor.

Seen in consultation with Dr. Sandy K. Gallardo.



[end section id="$final"]
[start section id="$gross"]

Gross Description
A.  Received fresh labeled ""portion of omentum"" is a 26.0 x 18.0 x 1.5 cm portion of omentum.  No masses are identified grossly.  Lymph nodes are not identified.  Representative sections submitted.  Grossed by GOFF.

B.  Received fresh labeled ""colon"" is a total abdominal colectomy specimen consisting of 3.5 cm in length portion of ileum, 105.0 in length colon, and a 7.0 x 0.8 cm appendix.  The anus and rectum are not present.  The mucosa forms numerous string-like fused structures, which are more prominent in the distal transverse and descending colon.  Representative sections submitted.  Grossed by LEE.

C.  Received fresh labeled ""anus, rectum, portion of sigmoid"" is a abdominal perineal resection specimen consisting of 25.0 cm in length portion of rectosigmoid colon with a 4.0 x 2.5 cm portion of anus.  A 4.0 x 3.2 x 1.5 cm ulcerative annular lesion is present within the rectum, 3.0 cm from the dentate line, 4.0 cm from the distal mucosal margin, and 3.0 cm from the radial margin.  Tumor perforation is absent.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified within the perirectal fat.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by GOFF.

D.  Received fresh labeled ""additional omentum"" is a 35.0 x 17.0 x 3.0 cm portion of omentum.  No masses are identified grossly.  Lymph nodes are not identified.  Representative sections submitted.  Grossed by LEE.



Frozen Sect-Intraop
A.  Omentum, omentectomy:  Mature adipose tissue, negative for tumor.  Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Ashley T. Story, M.D.

B.  Colon, abdominal colectomy:  No gross lesions identified.  Hold over for microscopic evaluation.

C.  Colon, low anterior resection:  Well differentiated invasive grade 2 (of 4) adenocarcinoma is identified forming an annular mass (4.0 x 3.2 x 1.5 cm) located 3.0 cm from the dentate line and 4.0 cm from the distal anal resection margin.  The tumor invades through the muscularis propria and into the pericolic fat.  Lymphatic/vascular invasion is absent.  All surgical resection margins are negative for dysplasia and tumor. 

D.  Omentum, additional, omentectomy:  Negative for tumor.

Frozen section histologic interpretation by:  Kenny N. Herbst, M.D.





[end section id="$gross"]