[meta rev_date="4/27/2010" start_date="4/30/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="$final"]
Final Diagnosis
A.  Omentum, omentectomy:  Benign adipose tissue.

B.  Colon, right, resection:  Invasive grade 4 (of 4) signet ring cell adenocarcinoma is identified forming an annular mass (8.0 x 6.0 x 2.3 cm) located in the proximal ascending colon, 8.0 cm from the distal mucosal margin.  The tumor penetrates the visceral peritoneum and directly invades the liver and the duodenal serosa.  Angiolymphatic invasion is present.  The tumor extends to within less than 0.1 cm of the mesenteric margin.  All surgical resection margins are negative for dysplasia and tumor.  Multiple (15 of 22) regional lymph nodes are involved by metastatic adenocarcinoma.

Immunostains performed at MetroWest County Hospital Clinic on a section of tumor show the cells to be negative for NSE, synaptophysin and chromogranin.  These findings support the above diagnosis.

Seen in consultation with Dr. Billy C. Mccormick.

C.  Retroperitoneum, excision:  Tumor emboli (signet ring cell adenocarcinoma) is identified in angiolymphatic spaces of fibroadipose tissue.

D.  Right colon, margin, excision:  Negative for tumor.

With available surgical material [AJCC pT4 N2] (7th edition, 2009).



[end section id="$final"]
[start section id="$gross"]

Gross Description
A.  Received fresh labeled ""omentum"" is a 17.0 x 15.0 x 3.0 cm portion of omentum with a stitch marked as ""stomach margin.""  There are no tumor nodules.  No lymph nodes are identified.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by HARMON.

B.  Received fresh labeled ""right colon--stitch in duodenum"" is a right hemicolectomy specimen consisting of 6.4 cm of terminal ileum and 19.0 cm of colon with a 3.5 x 2.0 x 0.4 cm portion of liver and a 1.1 x 1.0 cm portion of duodenum.  An 8.0 x 6.0 x 2.3 cm annular mass is present within the proximal ascending colon, 3.1 cm from the ileocecal valve.  The tumor invades through the colon wall into the duodenum, omentum, and liver.  The mass is 8.0 cm from the distal mucosal margin and 0.2 cm from the mesenteric margin.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified within the mesenteric fat.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by HARMON.

C.  Received fresh labeled ""retroperitoneum"" is a 2.5 x 1.4 x 1.0 cm option of yellow-red soft tissue.  All submitted.  Grossed by HAMPTON.

D.  Received fresh labeled ""right colon margin"" is a 7.0 x 2.0 x 1.0 cm portion of bowel with an anastomosis without orientation.  Margin submitted.  Grossed by HARMON.



Frozen Sect-Intraop
A.  Omentum, omentectomy:  Benign adipose tissue. 

B.  Colon, right, resection:  Invasive grade 3 to 4 (of 4) adenocarcinoma with neuroendocrine features is identified forming an annular mass (8.0 x 6.0 x 2.3 cm) located in the proximal ascending colon, 8.0 cm from the distal mucosal margin.  The tumor penetrates the visceral peritoneum and directly invades the liver and the duodenal serosa.  All surgical resection margins are negative for dysplasia and tumor.  Multiple (15 of 22) regional lymph nodes are invovled by metastatic adenocarcinoma.  Hold over to further qualify and grade.

C.  Retroperitoneum, excision:  Atypical nests of cells.

D.  Right colon, margin, excision:  Negative for tumor.

Frozen section histologic interpretation by:  Emmanuel L. Bradshaw, M.D.



Addendum Diagnosis
At the request of Ms. Lindy Collins, CNP, k-ras mutation analysis will be performed on paraffin-embedded ascending colon tumor (block B6).  Upon completion, results will be available in MRSZ UtpeAcmf.


Addendum Diagnosis
At the request of Ms. Lynn Collins, CNP, BRAF mutation analysis will be performed on paraffin-embedded ascending colon tumor (block B6).  Upon completion, results will be available in MRSZ UtpeAcmf. 


Internal Comments
4/30/10--6 molgen cuts to MG for k-ras mutation analysis at request of Lynn Collins, CNP/rjc
4/30/10Linda Collins added BRAF; rjc phoned Cervantez (techspec in MG) and added BRAF/rjc




[end section id="$gross"]