[meta rev_date="6/10/2010" start_date="9/15/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="$final"]
Final Diagnosis
A.  Ureter, left distal margin, biopsy:  Negative for tumor. Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Taylor Bowen, M.D.

B.  Colon, sigmoid and rectum, resection:  Recurrent invasive grade 3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma is identified forming a soft tissue mass (4.4 x 3.0 x 2.4 cm) located at the previous anastomosis site encasing the ureter and involving the colonic wall.  The colonic mucosa is not involved.    All surgical resection margins are negative for tumor (minimum tumor free margin, 3 mm, left pelvic sidewall margin).  Multiple (29) regional lymph nodes are negative for tumor.

C.  Liver, portion segment III, biopsy:  Fibrotic nodule with pseudocyst formation, negative for tumor.

D.  Liver, portion segment II, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.

E.  Liver, portion segment III, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.

F.  Liver, portion segment VIII, wedge resection:  Metastatic colonic adenocarcinoma, forming a 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm nodule, present at the surgical resection margin.

G.  Liver, segment VIII new margin, re-excision:  Negative for tumor.

H.  Rectum, distal anastomotic ring, excision:  Grossly unremarkable colonic tissue identified.
  
This final pathology report is based on the gross/macroscopic examination and the frozen section histologic evaluation of the specimen(s).  Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) permanent sections are reviewed to confirm these findings.  Any substantive changes identified on permanent section review will be reflected in a revised report.



[end section id="$final"]
[start section id="$gross"]

Gross Description
A.  Received fresh labeled ""left distal ureter margin"" is a 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm portion of tubular pink tissue with orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by ONEAL.

B.  Received fresh labeled ""sigmoid and rectum"" is a 21.0 cm portion of sigmoid and rectum with an attached 5.0 cm in length ureter.  There is an anastomosis 2.0 cm from one margin.  There is a 4.4 x 3.0 x 2.4 cm tan-white firm mass within the subcutaneous tissue beneath the anastomosis site.  The mass encases the ureter.  The mucosa of the rectum is focally hemorrhagic and ulcerated.  The left pelvic side wall margin (as oriented by surgeon) is shaved and entirely submitted for frozen. Lymph nodes are identified and submitted.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by GARRITY

C.  Received fresh labeled ""liver, portion of segment III"" is a 0.4 gram, 1.3 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm partial hepatectomy specimen.  A single 0.5 x 0.4 x 0.4 cm cyst is present 0.1 cm from the surgical margin. Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by DAVIS.

D.  Received fresh labeled ""portion of liver segment 2"" is a 2.36 gram, 2.2 x 2.1 x 0.6 cm partial hepatectomy specimen.  No masses are grossly identified.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by GARRITY

E.  Received fresh labeled ""portion of liver segment 3"" is a 1.0 gram, 1.7 x 1.2 x 0.6 cm partial hepatectomy specimen.  No masses are grossly identified.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by ATKINS.

F.  Received fresh labeled ""portion of liver, segment 8"" is a 43.28 gram, 7.6 x 4.6 x 2.8 cm partial hepatectomy specimen.  A single 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.8 cm mucinous mass is present abutting the surgical resection margin.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by DEARDORFF.

G.  Received fresh labeled ""new resection margin of liver, segment 8"" are multiple (2) portions of liver (1.3 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm and 2.3 x 2.0 x 0.8 cm), with orientation (new margin up).  Margin submitted.  Grossed by DEARDORFF.

H.  Received fresh labeled ""distal rectal ring"" is a 2.8 x 1.9 x 0.5 cm portion of hemorrhage tan mucosa embedded with innumerable staples.  Gross only.  Grossed by DAVIS.



Addendum Diagnosis
At the request of Dr. Pietsch, immunohistochemical studies for DNA mismatch repair enzymes MLH1, MSH2, MSH6 and PMS2 were performed on paraffin-embedded colon cancer tissue sections (block B1).  The staining showed intact expression of all four enzymes.  These findings fail to provide evidence of hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer syndrome (HNPCC) due to defective DNA mismatch repair.  PCR-based testing for microsatellite instability (MSI) was also requested; when completed, results will be available in GAYJ QrbjUutk.


Addendum Diagnosis
At the request of Dr. Gale Tuttle, k-ras mutation analysis and BRAF mutation analysis will be performed on paraffin-embedded colon tissue (block B1) and results available in GAYJ QrbjUutk when completed.


Internal Comments
12/30/2010 12 molgen recuts to MG for k-ras and BRAF mutation analysis at request of Dr. Gale Tuttle/mcnab




[end section id="$gross"]