[meta rev_date="8/17/2010" start_date="8/25/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="$final"]
Final Diagnosis
A.  Lymph nodes, periaortic, lymphadenectomy:  Multiple (3) periaortic lymph nodes are negative for tumor.

B.  Rectum and small bowel, low anterior resection:  Grade 2-3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma with mucinous features is identified forming an ulcerative mass (6.0 x 5.0 x 2.2 cm) located in the rectum.  Tumor invades through the muscularis, directly into the small bowel with malignant fistula formation, and is also adherent to an attached segment of ureter.  Lymphatic/vascular invasion is not identified.  The tumor extends to within 0.5 cm of the radial resection margin.  The surgical margins are negative for tumor.  Multiple (5) regional lymph nodes are negative for tumor.

C.  Uterus, bilateral ovaries, and fallopian tubes; hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy:  The endometrium is atrophic.  There are multiple (3) intramural leiomyomata (ranging in size from 0.3 cm to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension).  The cervix shows chronic cervicitis.  The bilateral ovaries and fallopian tubes are without diagnostic abnormality.

D.  Skin and soft tissue, colostomy site, excision:  Colostomy site with nonspecific chronic inflammation.

E.  Colon, distal anastomotic ring, excision:  Unremarkable bowel mucosa identified grossly.

F.  Colon, proximal anastomotic ring, excision:  Unremarkable bowel mucosa identified grossly.

With available surgical material [AJCC ypT4N0] (7th edition, 2010).

This final pathology report is based on the gross/macroscopic examination and the frozen section histologic evaluation of the specimen(s).  Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) permanent sections are reviewed to confirm these findings.  


[end section id="$final"]
[start section id="$gross"]

Gross Description
A.  Received fresh labeled ""peri-aortic lymph nodes"" is a 1.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm aggregate of adipose tissue and lymph nodes.  All lymph nodes submitted.  Grossed by GARRETT.

B.  Received fresh labeled ""rectum & pelvic sidewall"" is a low anterior resection specimen consisting of 14.0 cm in length portion of rectum, 17.0 cm in length portion of small bowel, and 7.0 cm in length portion of ureter.  There is a 6.0 x 5.0 x 2.2 cm ulcerative mass forming multiple (2) fistula tracts to the small bowel.  The ureter is adhesed but is grossly uninvolved. Multiple lymph nodes are identified within the perirectal fat.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by GARRETT.

C.  Received fresh labeled ""uterus and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy"" is an 85.0 gram uterus with attached bilateral tubes and ovaries and cervix.  The uterine serosa is smooth.  The endometrium is unremarkable.  There are multiple (3) intramural leiomyomata (ranging in size from 0.3 cm to 1.5 cm in greatest dimension).  There is a 3.5 x 1.3 x 1.0 cm right ovary with a solid cut surface and a 7.0 x 1.1 cm right edematous fallopian tube.  There is also a 3.0 x 1.0 x 0.9 cm left ovary with a solid cut surface and an 8.2 x 1.0 cm edematous left fallopian tube which has multiple paratubal cysts.  Representative sections submitted.  Grossed by WINFREE.

D.  Received fresh labeled ""colostomy site"" is a 12.0 x 5.5 x 3.5 cm colostomy specimen with a 4.0 x 0.6 cm portion of skin and a 12.0 cm portion of colon.  The specimen has fibrous adhesions.  Representative sections submitted.  Grossed by WINFREE.

E.  Received fresh labeled ""distal rectal ring"" is a 2.5 x 1.8 x 0.9 cm mucosal anastomotic ring with multiple metallic staples.  The specimen is grossly unremarkable.  Gross examination only.  Grossed by WINFREE.

F.  Received fresh labeled ""proximal rectal ring"" is a 2.2 x 1.8 x 0.9 cm mucosal anastomotic ring with multiple metallic staples.  The specimen is grossly unremarkable.  Gross examination only.  Grossed by WINFREE.



Addendum Diagnosis
Due to the patient's young age, reflexive molecular genetic testing for HNPCC will be performed; when completed, results will be available in DRLO TjkjObqy (molecular genetics report).




[end section id="$gross"]