[meta rev_date="9/8/2010" start_date="9/9/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="$final"]
Final Diagnosis
A.	Sigmoid colon, rectum and anus, abdominal perineal resection:  Microscopic foci of residual grade 2 (of 4) mucinous adenocarcinoma with abundant acellular mucin pools are identified within a fibrotic, inflammatory, ill-defined mass (7.1 x 6.0 x 4.1 cm) involving perirectal fibroadipose tissue with minimal to moderate tumor response to therapy (grade 1-2 of 3).  Rectum with patchy active chronic colitis and mucosal prolapse changes and anorectal fistula tract is identified.  Multiple perianal and perirectal abscess cavities are identified.  Multiple (19) regional lymph nodes are negative for tumor.  The surgical resection margins are negative for tumor, the nearest margin (radial) is free of tumor by 0.4 cm.  

B.	Soft tissue, region right prostate, nodule, excision:  Focally involved by grade 2 (of 4) mucinous adenocarcinoma.

C.	Soft tissue, region left prostate, nodule, excision:  Focally involved by grade 2 (of 4) mucinous adenocarcinoma.

D.	Rectum, anterior midline margin, dissection:  Negative for tumor.

E.	Soft tissue, region prostate, nodule, excision:  Focally involved by grade 2 (of 4) mucinous adenocarcinoma.

With available surgical material AJCCypT3N0 (7th Ed 2010).

Seen in consultation with Dr. Marion L. Pier.



Diagnosis Comment
In part B, viable tumor cells identified in permanent sections only.


[end section id="$final"]
[start section id="$gross"]

Gross Description
A.	Received fresh labeled sigmoid colon, rectum, anus is an abdominal perineal resection specimen consisting of 28 cm in length portion of sigmoid colon and rectum with an 11.0 x 11.0 cm portion of anus.  The radial margin is inked.  A 7.1 x 6.0 x 4.1 cm fibrotic area is present within, 6.6 cm from the mucosal margin, and 0.4 cm from the radial margin. Grossly, there are multiple areas of mucin pools associated with fibrosis extending into the perirectal fat.  Multiple perianal abscesses with an anorectal fistula are also present.  The radial margin is taken perpendicularly.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified within the perirectal fat. Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by ZUNIGA

B.	Received fresh labeled right peri-prostatic nodule is a 3.5 x 3.2 x 2.1 cm portion of tan-pink fibrous tissue  containing a 2.3 x 1.8 x 1.1 cm mucinous nodule.  Representative sections submitted.  Grossed by KITCHENS

C.	Received fresh labeled left peri-prostatic nodule is a 7.5 x 5.0 x 2.2 cm fragment of fibrotic, ragged pink-tan tissue containing multiple mucin nodules (ranging in size from 0.3 cm to 1.0 cm in greatest dimension) and a 1.5 x 1.0 x 1.0 cm abscess cavity.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by CHOICE.

D.	Received fresh labeled rectal dissection anterior midline marginis a 1.1 x 1.0 x 0.3 cm fragment of red-tan soft tissue without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by CORRELL.

E.	Received fresh labeled peri-prostatic nodule is a 5.1 x 4.2 x 1.4 cm portion of tan soft tissue with possible mucosa.  The cut surface is firm, fibrous and tan-white.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by CORRELL.







Frozen Sect-Intraop
A.	Sigmoid colon, rectum and anus, abdominal perineal resection:  Microscopic foci of residual grade 2 (of 4) mucinous adenocarcinoma are identified within a fibrotic, inflammatory, ill-defined mass (7.1 x 6.0 x 4.1 cm) involving the distal rectum.  Anorectal fistula tract is identified.  Multiple perianal and perirectal abscess cavities are identified.  Multiple (19) regional lymph nodes are negative for tumor.

B.	Soft tissue, right prostate, nodule, excision:  Acellular mucin only.

C.	Soft tissue, left prostate, nodule, excision:  Residual microscopic foci of grade 2 (of 4) mucinous adenocarcinoma.

D.	Rectum, anterior midline margin, dissection:  Negative for tumor.

E.	Soft tissue, prostate, nodule, excision:  Focally involved by grade 2 (of 4) mucinous adenocarcinoma.

Hold over to further classify.

Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Jessie T. Gillum, M.D.





[end section id="$gross"]