[meta rev_date="7/30/2010" start_date="8/2/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="$final"]
Final Diagnosis
A.    Omentum, attached to rectal tumor, excision:  Microscopic focus of grade 3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma consistent with colon primary.  See comment.

B.  Sigmoid colon and appendix, resection:  Invasive 3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma, forming a 3.1 x 2.3 x 1.2 cm endophytic mass in the sigmoid colon.  The tumor invades through the muscularis propria into the pericolic fat. The appendix is adherent to the sigmoid, but not involved by tumor. Multiple diverticula are identified. The surgical resection margins are negative for tumor. Multiple (3 of 28) regional lymph nodes are positive for metastatic carcinoma.  Multiple (4) negative lymph nodes show fibrosis, dystrophic calcifications, and marked histiocytic inflammatory infiltrate, consistent with therapy effect.

C.  Rectum, distal anastomotic ring, excision:  Grossly unremarkable rectal mucosa identified.

D.  Lymph node, common hepatic artery, lymphadenectomy:  A single lymph node shows focal necrotizing granulomatous inflammation; negative for tumor.  Special stains (GMS, AFB) were performed on the paraffin embedded lymph node tissue and are negative for organisms.

E.  Gallbladder, cholecystectomy:  The gallbladder is unremarkable.  A single cystic duct lymph node shows marked histiocytic inflammatory infiltrate; negative for tumor.

F.  Lymph nodes, periportal, lymphadenectomy:  Multiple (7) periportal lymph nodes are negative for tumor.

G.  Liver, segment 6, excision:  Mild fatty change; otherwise unremarkable hepatic parenchyma; no tumor identified grossly or microscopically.

H.  Liver, segment 8, excision:  Subcapsular fibrosis forming a 0.5 cm wedge-shaped lesion; negative for tumor.

I.  Liver, segment 7, excision:  Subcapsular fibrosis forming a 1.1 cm wedge-shaped lesion; negative for tumor.

J.  Liver, segment 2, excision: Subcapsular fibrosis forming a 0.9 cm wedge-shaped lesion; negative for tumor.

K.  Liver, segment 2, No. 2, excision:  Subcapsular fibrosis forming a 0.4 cm wedge-shaped lesion; negative for tumor.

With available surgical materials, [AJCC ypT3N1](7th edition, 2010).



Diagnosis Comment
The frozen section slide from the omentum (Part A) was re-reviewed and the microscopic focus of tumor was not present on the original frozen section slide.



[end section id="$final"]
[start section id="$gross"]

Gross Description
A.  Received fresh labeled ""omentum attached to rectal tumor"" is a 5.9 x 2.9 x 1.5 cm aggregate of adipose tissue with focal firmness.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by GALLUCCI.

B.  Received fresh labeled ""sigmoid colon and appendix"" is a 26.0 cm in length portion of sigmoid colon.  There is a 3.1 x 2.3 x 1.2 cm endophytic mass 5.6 cm from the rectal mucosal margin.  Grossly, the mass extends into the pericolonic fat.  Multiple diverticula are identified.  Multiple lymph nodes are present within the mesenteric fat.  There is a 9.2 x 0.5 cm adherent appendix.  The tip is firmly adherent to the perisigmoid tissue by fibrous bands, and is, grossly uninvolved by tumor.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by JONES.

C.  Received fresh labeled ""distal rectal ring/margin"" is a 2.9 x 2.1 x 1.1 cm ring of unremarkable bowel, partially covered by mucosa.  Gross only.  Grossed by TURNER.

D.  Received fresh labeled ""common hepatic artery lymph node"" is a 2.1 x 1.2 x 1.0 cm lymph node.  All submitted.  Grossed by JONES.

E.  Received fresh labeled ""gallbladder"" is a 9.5 x 3.5 x 2.5 cm gallbladder with a 0.2 cm maximum wall thickness and patent cystic duct.  A 2.0 cm cystic duct lymph node is identified.  No stones are present within the lumen.  Cholesterolosis is identified.  No masses are identified.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by SARAGOSA.

F.  Received fresh labeled ""periportal lymph nodes"" is a 2.7 x 1.9 x 0.5 cm aggregate of adipose and lymphatic tissue.  Lymph nodes submitted.  Grossed by SARAGOSA.

G.  Received fresh labeled ""liver portion segment 6"" is a 21.0 gram, 5.3 x 3.1 x 1.7 cm liver wedge specimen.  No mass is present.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by TURNER.

H.  Received fresh labeled ""liver portion segment 7"" is a 2.8 x 2.1 x 1.5 cm and a 2.2 x 1.4 x 0.8 cm liver wedge specimen.  A single 0.5 cm tan mass is present 0.5 cm from the surgical margin.  Margin is submitted perpendicularly.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by SARAGOSA.

I.  Received fresh labeled ""liver portion segment 8"" is a 2.7 x 2.4 x 1.4 cm liver wedge specimen.   A single 1.1 cm subcapsular tan mass is present 0.5 cm from the surgical margin.   Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by SARAGOSA.

J.  Received fresh labeled ""liver portion segment 2"" is a 5.3 x 3.8 x 1.4 cm liver wedge specimen.  A single 0.9 cm subcapsular tan mass is present 0.7 cm from the surgical margin.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by SARAGOSA.

K.  Received fresh labeled ""liver portion segment 2"" is a 5.0 gram, 2.5 x 2.2 x 1.3 cm liver wedge specimen.  A single 0.4 x 0.3 cm tan mass is present 0.3 cm from the surgical margin.   Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by SARAGOSA.



Frozen Sect-Intraop
A.    Omentum, attached to rectal tumor, excision:  Negative.

B.  Sigmoid colon and appendix, resection:  Invasive adenocarcinoma, margins negative.  Multiple lymph nodes positive for metastatic carcinoma. HOLD to confirm.

C.  Rectum, distal anastomotic ring, excision:  Grossly unremarkable.

D.  Lymph node, common hepatic artery, lymphadenectomy:  Negative.  Granulomatous inflammation.  HOLD to perform organism stains.

E.  Gallbladder, cholecystectomy:  The gallbladder is unremarkable.  A single cystic duct lymph node is negative.

F.  Lymph nodes, periportal, lymphadenectomy:  Multiple lymph nodes are negative.

G.  Liver, segment 6, excision:  Unremarkable hepatic parenchyma; no tumor identified grossly or microscopically.

H-K.  Liver, segment 8, segment 7, segment 2 No. 1 and No. 2, excisions:  Negative. HOLD to rule out metastatic carcinoma.

Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Kim D. Burkhardt, M.D.






[end section id="$gross"]