[meta rev_date="5/28/2010" start_date="5/28/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="$final"]
Final Diagnosis
C.  Colon, rectosigmoid, resection:  Invasive grade 4 (of 4) mucinous adenocarcinoma with signet ring cell features and prior treatment effect is identified forming an ulcerated mass (5.2 x 3.5 x 1.1 cm) with perforation, located 0.7 cm from the distal mucosal margin.  The tumor infiltrates through the muscularis propria to involve the perirectal soft tissue.  No definite angiolymphatic invasion is identified.  The distal margin is involved by tumor.  A tubular adenoma with low grade dysplasia (0.8 cm in greatest dimension) is identified.  Multiple (6 of 16) regional lymph nodes are positive for metastatic adenocarcinoma.

A.  Soft tissue, left presacral region, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.

B.  Soft tissue, left low pelvic region, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.

D.  Distal rectum and anus, proctectomy:  No residual tumor is identified in the rectum, which shows reactive changes.  The anal mucosa is unremarkable.  The surgical resection margins are negative for tumor.

E.  Soft tissue, rectovaginal septum, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.

F.  Soft tissue, posterior vaginal wall, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.

With available surgical material, [AJCC ypT3N2a] (7th edition, 2009).

This final pathology report is based on the gross/macroscopic examination and the frozen section histologic evaluation of the specimen(s).  Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) permanent sections are reviewed to confirm these findings.  Any substantive changes identified on permanent section review will be reflected in a revised report.



[end section id="$final"]
[start section id="$gross"]

Gross Description
A.  Received fresh labeled ""left presacrum rule out tumor"" is a 3.0 x 2.4 x 0.7 cm unoriented aggregate of red-yellow fibrous tissue.  All submitted.  Grossed by ANDERSON.

B.  Received fresh labeled ""left low pelvis--rule out tumor"" is a 1.4 x 1.0 x 0.5 cm fragment of pink-tan fibrous tissue.  All submitted.  Grossed by CLARK.

C.  Received fresh labeled ""sigmoid, rectum"" is a low anterior resection specimen consisting of 31.5 cm in length portion of rectosigmoid colon.  A 5.2 x 3.5 x 1.1 cm ulcerated mass with a 2.0 x 1.1 cm perforation is present within the rectum, 0.7 cm from the distal mucosal margin and at the radial margin at the area of perforation.  Multiple lymph nodes are identified within the perirectal fat.  A separate sessile polyp (0.8 cm in greatest dimension) is identified in the mid portion of the specimen.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by CLARK.

D.  Received fresh labeled ""distal rectum and anus"" is a 3.5 cm in length rectum with a 4.0 cm in greatest dimension anus.  The surrounding soft tissue is ragged and shows two defects.  Upon opening, the mucosa is unremarkable.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by NAQUIN.

E.  Received fresh labeled ""rectovaginal septum tissue"" is a 5.5 x 1.0 x 0.7 cm portion of tan-pink tissue.  All submitted.  Grossed by NAQUIN.

F.  Received fresh labeled ""posterior vaginal wall rule out cancer"" is a 1.7 x 0.5 x 0.2 cm aggregate of tan tissue.  All submitted.  Grossed by CLARK.





[end section id="$gross"]