[meta rev_date="5/12/2010" start_date="5/14/2010" rev="0001"]

[start section id="$final"]
Final Diagnosis
A.  Foreign body, intraabdominal mesh, excision:  Foreign material with fibrosis, giant cell reaction, and chronic inflammation.  Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Kim K. Ingram, M.D.

B.  Lymph nodes, right iliac, lymphadenectomy:  Multiple (4) right iliac lymph nodes are negative for tumor.  Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Kim K. Ingram, M.D.

C.  Bladder wall, biopsy:  Fat necrosis.  Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Kim K. Ingram, M.D.

D.  Ureter, right proximal margin, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.  Frozen section histologic interpretation performed by:  Kim K. Ingram, M.D.

E.  Ureter, ureteral stent, removal:  Ureteral stent identified grossly. Gross examination only.  

F.  Rectum with colorectal anastomosis, small bowel, right ureter and vagina; en-bloc resection:  Invasive grade 3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma with prior treatment effect, consistent with recurrence, is identified forming a 3.1 x 2.5 x 1.6 cm ulcerated, strictured mass around the prior anastomotic site.  The tumor infiltrates through the muscularis propria to diffusely involve the adjacent soft tissue with dense fibrosis.  The tumor involves the portion of right ureter and the tumor mass is adherent to the wall of vagina.  A separate nodule (2.6 x 1.4 x 1.2 cm) of grade 3 (of 4) adenocarcinoma with prior treatment effect is identified in the anterior soft tissue.  The bowel resection margins are negative for tumor.
  
G.  Soft tissue, right rectal margin, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.

H.  Soft tissue, left rectal margin, biopsy:  Negative for tumor. 

I.  Soft tissue, anterior rectal margin, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.

J.  Vagina, right margin, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.

K. Vagina, left margin, biopsy:  Negative for tumor. 

L.  Vagina, right posterior margin, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.

M.  Vagina, left posterior margin, biopsy:  Negative for tumor. 

N.  Iliac vein, right margin, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.

O.  Soft tissue, deep presacral margin, biopsy:  Negative for tumor.

P.  Foreign body, abdominal wall with mesh, excision:  Skin and subcutaneous with acute and chronic inflammation and abscess formation.

Q.  Soft tissue, small bowel mesentery, biopsy:  A single benign lymph node is associated with fat necrosis and foreign body giant cell reaction.

R.  Cecum and terminal ileum, right, hemicolectomy:  Focal serosal adhesions are identified.  The colonic and terminal ileal mucosa are unremarkable.  Multiple (6) regional lymph nodes are negative for metastatic carcinoma.

This final pathology report is based on the gross/macroscopic examination and the frozen section histologic evaluation of the specimen(s). Hematoxylin and Eosin (H&E) permanent sections are reviewed to confirm these findings. Any substantive changes identified on permanent section review will be reflected in a revised report.





[end section id="$final"]
[start section id="$gross"]

Gross Description
A.  Received fresh labeled ""intra-abdominal mesh"" is a 7.2 x 3.5 x 1.2 cm portion of tan-white dense fibrous tissue.  There is no mesh material grossly identified.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

B.  Received fresh labeled ""right iliac lymph nodes"" is a 3.5 x 2.8 x 1.3 cm aggregate of adipose tissue and lymph nodes.  Lymph nodes submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

C.  Received fresh labeled ""bladder wall"" is a 0.6 x 0.4 x 0.2 cm aggregate of tan-red tissue fragments.  All submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

D.  Received fresh labeled ""right proximal ureter margin"" is a 0.8 x 0.6 x 0.3 cm portion opened duct tissue without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

E.  Received fresh labeled ""ureteral stent (for ID)"" is a 32.5 cm long ureteral stent.  Gross examination only.  Grossed by SANTIAGO.

F.  Received fresh labeled ""rectum, right ureter, vagina, small bowel, colorectal anastomosis"" is a 4.1 x 2.1 cm vagina, 3.6 cm long ureter, and 11.0 x 6.8 x 5.6 cm of small and large bowel with intact anastomotic site.  There is a 3.1 x 1.5 x 0.6 cm ulcerated rectal mass, located 10 cm from the mucosal margin, less than 0.1 cm from the radial margin (black inked).  In addition, there is a 2.6 x 1.4 x 0.1 cm anterior serosal nodule.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by WXS

G.  Received fresh labeled ""right rectal margin"" is a 1.4 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm portion of mucosa without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

H.  Received fresh labeled ""left rectal margin"" is a 4.2 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm portion of fibroadipose tissue without mucosa, without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

I.  Received fresh labeled ""anterior rectal margin"" is a 2.0 x 1.2 x 0.5 cm portion of mucosa with colonic muscle wall without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

J.  Received fresh labeled ""right anterior vaginal margin"" is a 0.9 x 0.7 x 0.4 cm portion of tan-red fibrous tissue without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

K.  Received fresh labeled ""left anterior vaginal margin"" is a 1.1 x 0.5 x 0.4 cm portion of tan-red fibrous tissue without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

L.  Received fresh labeled ""right posterior vaginal margin"" is a 1.2 x 0.5 x 0.6 cm portion of tan-red soft tissue without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

M.  Received fresh labeled ""left posterior vaginal margin"" is a 0.8 x 0.5 x 0.5 cm portion of tan-red soft tissue without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

N.  Received fresh labeled ""right iliac vein margin"" is a 1.2 x 1.0 x 0.6 cm portion of fibroadipose tissue  without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

O.  Received fresh labeled ""deep presacral margin"" is a 3.0 x 1.8 x 0.8 cm aggregate of tan-red fibrous tissue without orientation.  All submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

P.  Received fresh labeled ""abdominal wall with mesh"" is a 14.6 x 5.7 x 3.6 cm tan-white fibroadipose tissue with 7.6 x 0.6 cm attached skin.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by MEDLOCK

Q.  Received fresh labeled ""small bowel"" is a 1.8 x 1.5 x 0.8 cm portion of tan-yellow adipose tissue.  All submitted.  Grossed by GILMORE.

R.  Received fresh labeled ""cecum and terminal ileum"" is a 6.9 cm length terminal ileum (stapled) and 5.8 cm length cecum with serosal adhesions.  The mucosa is unremarkable.  Multiple regional lymph nodes are identified.  Appendix is absent.  Representative sections are submitted.  Grossed by KANTOR.





[end section id="$gross"]