[meta rev_date="04/02/2010" start_date="03/29/2010" rev="0003"]

[start section id="20100"]

Apr-02-2010 09:16:14 - Modification to IMPRESSION / REPORT / PLAN, SPECIAL INSTRUCTIONS by Pam E. Johnson

[end section id="20100"]

[start section id="20112"]

#1 Rectal cancer
Hematology group shows a slightly low hemoglobin 13, hematocrit 37.8, erythrocytes 3.99. Rest of hematology group normal. Blood chemistries normal. Electrocardiogram normal. Chest x-ray minimal scarring in the bases. CT chest shows an irregular 3-mm nodular opacity in the right apex that does not have the typical appearance of metastasis but is indeterminate. Follow-up suggested. Outside CT abdomen and pelvis shows the rectal carcinoma possible localized perirectal spread of neoplasm and likely perirectal lymph node metastases. There is a high suspicion for more distal common iliac and retroperitoneal node metastatic disease. A tiny equivocal hepatic lesions were also noted. Immunohistochemical staining for mismatch repair proteins showed intact normal expression of all four proteins. Flexible sigmoidoscopy showed stenotic rectal tumor 5 to 8-cm from the anal verge. Tattoo performed 1-cm distal to the distal margin. Endoscopist was able to traverse the lesion, but encountered stool. If EUS or full colonoscopy needed one could do further colon preparation and EUS in room 2 with the ALOKA linear or radial echoendoscope based in that room. Patient saw Dr. Ruth Hayes of Colon and Rectal Surgery. She believes that the lesion is lower than 5-cm. Patient is to see Radiation and Medical Oncology this week. Mr. Gadson mistakenly thought that fiber to move his bowels would be a good idea and I believe he is somewhat more constipated than he was before. I asked him to remain on full liquids only with no solid food. Stenting, I do not believe is a viable option as it is too low and would cause Mr. Gadson quite a bit of discomfort or may fall out. There is the possibility that diversion may be necessary if Radiation Oncology feels that swelling of the lesion would be encountered, which could obstruct Mr. Gadson. I did mention this to Mr. Gadson. I did refill his Oxycodone 5-mg tablets one every four hours as-needed for pain No. 30 with no refill. I did explain to Mr. Gadson that this is constipating as well and he needs to drink lots of fluids and remain off fiber or any solid food to try to move his bowels which he is doing frequently in small amounts.
ADDENDUM:
Patient seen in Radiation Oncology by Dr. Becker Columbia March 2010. Chemoradiation therapy was recommended. Mr. Gadson will pursue this closer to home. Patient also seen in Medical Oncology by Dr. Lee Givens who also reiterated chemoradiation therapy which will most likely be performed at-home. Please see the 30 March 2010 note. After Mr. Gadson finishes his chemoradiation closer to home he should make appointment back in the Belleview with myself for repeat blood work, CT chest, abdomen, and pelvis (to restage and look at the 3-mm nodular opacity in the right apex). Patient should also have return visit at the same time with Dr. Ruth Hayes, colon and rectal surgeon. After finishing chemoradiation therapy closer to home patient would need a rest period of four to six-weeks and then return for restaging and revisit with myself and Colon and Rectal Surgery. He should call during his rest period to make arrangements with my appointment secretary 202-304-8092.
PATIENT EDUCATION
Ready to learn, no apparent learning barriers were identified; learning preferences include listening.  Explained diagnosis and treatment plan; patient expressed understanding of the content.
I spent 15 minutes with Mr. Gadson and his family discussing all of the above answering all questions.

[end section id="20112"]

[start section id="20102"]

Face-to-face to discuss the results and recommendations with Mr. Gadson and his family, answered all questions.

[end section id="20102"]

[start section id="20115"]

Other care provider information:  Final letter. Patient should return in approximately four to six-weeks after finishing chemoradiation for repeat blood work, CT chest, abdomen, and pelvis (for restaging and look at 3-mm nodular opacity in the right apex of the lung), ECG, a visit with myself and Dr. Ruth Hayes.

[end section id="20115"]

[start section id="20114"]

F3
15
15

[end section id="20114"]


